---
layout: post
title: "Nothing Against Citizenship Amendment Act?"
comments: true
keywords: "cab, caa, bill, act, citizenship, government, people, human, protest, humanity"
---

I originally [wrote the post on Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/p/B6L6HAzFbL0). It was not only in response to the reply that I received for not saying enough against the __Citizenship Amendment Bill__ but also to share my opinion on the current situation.

- What is Citizenship (Amendment) Bill, 2019?

   - __Read [this post](http://prsindia.org/billtrack/citizenship-amendment-bill-2019)__ by [PRS Legislative Research (PRS India)](http://prsindia.org/billtrack/citizenship-amendment-bill-2019)

Yesterday, at around the 1:30 pm, I got a message from someone I know, he said - 

> You realize that you are a coward for not sharing anything related to the protests? <br>
> I thought  you were a good human being, but you are just a another bhakt.

__Bhakt__: A devotee. Also, someone who supports BJP, and justifies everything they do.

It was quite surprising to me, but I can understand the anger. Indeed, I didn't share enough on social media, but the reason is that - I'm extremely busy with my work. The place where I'm right now - the atmosphere is different. But I don't think I'm going to apologize for not being outraged enough which could "__display__" how I feel.


The whole incident was genuinely disappointing, but anyway, __here's what I wrote -__ 

---

I'm friends with people who support CAA, and I'm friends with people who are against it. I'm friends with people who are pro-BJP, and I'm friends with those who loathe the current government.

Till now, I haven't said anything. Didn't feel like saying. Not sure what would change even if I say things. To whom I'm informing when I upload stories on Instagram? Everyone's informed. People know what's right and what's wrong. Everyone has made up their mind.

Saw several stories where people mentioned that you need to confront others to make them understand the current situation. A lot of people shared a story that was about the Nazis and their comparisons with people who support CAA.

I've been reading everything. I've bookmarked 100s of links. If someone will talk to me about CAA, I'll politely describe things I know. But if you want me to insult others, compare them with Nazis, and repeatedly call them bhakts. I don't think I can do that, and if you are going to call me coward just because I don't fit your narrative, then I don't think you are solving any issue.

Protest and discussion - both are important. You think discussion/debate won't put much of the impact, but you are wrong. Remember, you aren't protesting outside. You are just sharing the same thing with the same people over and over. These people agree with you. It's like feeding someone who isn't hungry.

I'm here in a village, and if one thing that I learned here is that if you talk to people, you can make them understand. If I had started name-calling and insulting people because of their political opinion, no one would have listened to me. I don't think it should be this hard to understand, or is it?

Look, I'm not a liberal or progressive, but I know what's right and what's wrong.

__To fight for humanity, you don't have to lose your sanity.__

Thank You!

---

It's my perspective, my opinion, and my way of thinking. Of course, I can't force people to think the way I do, but I hope that the post changes the thoughts of at least a couple of people. That'd be enough for me.

<br>

- 2:03 am, and I'm going to prepare a cup of coffee. I've got a lot of work to do, and I'm 100% running late.